Routing is the process of transmitting data packets from one computer to another, allowing messages to reach their intended destination. A router is a network device that routes data packets between computer networks. It connects to two or more data lines from various networks (as opposed to a network switch, which links data lines from the same network). This project focuses on the top-level architecture of routers and how sub-modules such as Register, FIFO, FSM, and Synchronizer are synthesized, simulated, and connected to the top module.  

A router is a device that routes data packets across networks. It connects to at least two networks, typically two LANs or WANs, or a LAN and its ISP's network. It is positioned in gateways, which connect multiple networks. It's an OSI layer 3 routing device. It routes an incoming packet to an output channel depending on the address fields in the packet header. Routers use headers and forwarding tables to identify the optimal path for packets, and protocols to negotiate and configure routes between hosts.  

In this project there are 4 submodules that are used:
     1. Register Block : The main goal of this block is to detect the header and calculate the internal parity and check with the source parity.
     2. Synchronizer : This block generates the respective soft reset signals and write enable signals to write the data in the respective FIFOs.
     3. FSM : This block functions primarily as the router's controller. It produces the appropriate controls for the FIFO and Synchroniser depending on the status signal values.
     4. FIFO : This is a synchronous active low reset FIFO that supports both read and write operations.

How a Router 1X3 works?
-Data which is of 8 bit enters into register block and at the same time the address of the data which is of 2 bits will enter into the FSM & Synchronizer simultaneously.
-FSM will generate a detect address signal which will tell the synchronizer that it is header and synchronizer will check the header and generate necessary write enable signal accordingly and it will generate the soft reset signal based on the read enable signal.
-The data that is there in register will go to the respective FIFO based on the write enable signal generated by the Synchronizer.
-After data enters into FIFO, FIFO is not empty anymore, so valid out signal is generated.
-The moment valid out generates the counter logic in the Synchronizer starts counting for 30 clock cycles and looking for read enable.
-Based on the read enable signal, the data in FIFO will go out from dout i.e., destination.
-In the mean time, register block completes parity and gives the error signal and meanwhile FSM will go through all the states that are there in the State transition diagram.

Steps followed during this project:
     1. Created a Block level structure for the top module.
     2. Each sub-blocks are designed and verified with testbenches separately.
     3. Implemented top module.
